doc/guides/linux_gsg/eal_args.include.rst, before:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation.

Lcore-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-c <core mask>``

    Set the hexadecimal bitmask of the cores to run on.

*   ``-l <core list>``

    List of cores to run on

    The argument format is ``<c1>[-c2][,c3[-c4],...]``
    where ``c1``, ``c2``, etc are core indexes between 0 and 128.

*   ``--lcores <core map>``

    Map lcore set to physical cpu set

    The argument format is::

       <lcores[@cpus]>[<,lcores[@cpus]>...]

    Lcore and CPU lists are grouped by ``(`` and ``)`` Within the group.
    The ``-`` character is used as a range separator and ``,`` is used as a
    single number separator.
    The grouping ``()`` can be omitted for single element group.
    The ``@`` can be omitted if cpus and lcores have the same value.

.. Note::
    At a given instance only one core option ``--lcores``, ``-l`` or ``-c`` can
    be used.

*   ``--master-lcore <core ID>``

    Core ID that is used as master.

*   ``-s <service core mask>``

    Hexadecimal bitmask of cores to be used as service cores.

Device-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-b, --pci-blacklist <[domain:]bus:devid.func>``

    Blacklist a PCI device to prevent EAL from using it. Multiple -b options are
    allowed.

.. Note::
    PCI blacklist cannot be used with ``-w`` option.

*   ``-w, --pci-whitelist <[domain:]bus:devid.func>``

    Add a PCI device in white list.

.. Note::
    PCI whitelist cannot be used with ``-b`` option.

*   ``--vdev <device arguments>``

    Add a virtual device using the format::

       <driver><id>[,key=val, ...]

    For example::

       --vdev 'net_pcap0,rx_pcap=input.pcap,tx_pcap=output.pcap'

*   ``-d <path to shared object or directory>``

    Load external drivers. An argument can be a single shared object file, or a
    directory containing multiple driver shared objects. Multiple -d options are
    allowed.

*   ``--no-pci``

    Disable PCI bus.

Multiprocessing-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``--proc-type <primary|secondary|auto>``

    Set the type of the current process.

*   ``--base-virtaddr <address>``

    Attempt to use a different starting address for all memory maps of the
    primary DPDK process. This can be helpful if secondary processes cannot
    start due to conflicts in address map.

Memory-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-n <number of channels>``

    Set the number of memory channels to use.

*   ``-r <number of ranks>``

    Set the number of memory ranks (auto-detected by default).

*   ``-m <megabytes>``

    Amount of memory to preallocate at startup.

*   ``--in-memory``

    Do not create any shared data structures and run entirely in memory. Implies
    ``--no-shconf`` and (if applicable) ``--huge-unlink``.

*   ``--iova-mode <pa|va>``

    Force IOVA mode to a specific value.

Debugging options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``--no-shconf``

    No shared files created (implies no secondary process support).

*   ``--no-huge``

    Use anonymous memory instead of hugepages (implies no secondary process
    support).

*   ``--log-level <type:val>``

    Specify log level for a specific component. For example::

        --log-level lib.eal:debug

    Can be specified multiple times.

*   ``--trace=<regex-match>``

    Enable trace based on regular expression trace name. By default, the trace is
    disabled. User must specify this option to enable trace.
    For example:

    Global trace configuration for EAL only::

        --trace=eal

    Global trace configuration for ALL the components::

        --trace=.*

    Can be specified multiple times up to 32 times.

*   ``--trace-dir=<directory path>``

    Specify trace directory for trace output. For example:

    Configuring ``/tmp/`` as a trace output directory::

        --trace-dir=/tmp

    By default, trace output will created at ``home`` directory and parameter
    must be specified once only.

*   ``--trace-bufsz=<val>``

    Specify maximum size of allocated memory for trace output for each thread.
    Valid unit can be either ``B`` or ``K`` or ``M`` for ``Bytes``, ``KBytes``
    and ``MBytes`` respectively. For example:

    Configuring ``2MB`` as a maximum size for trace output file::

        --trace-bufsz=2M

    By default, size of trace output file is ``1MB`` and parameter
    must be specified once only.

*   ``--trace-mode=<o[verwrite] | d[iscard] >``

    Specify the mode of update of trace output file. Either update on a file
    can be wrapped or discarded when file size reaches its maximum limit.
    For example:

    To ``discard`` update on trace output file::

        --trace-mode=d or --trace-mode=discard

    Default mode is ``overwrite`` and parameter must be specified once only.

Other options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-h``, ``--help``

    Display help message listing all EAL parameters.

*   ``-v``

    Display the version information on startup.

*   ``mbuf-pool-ops-name``:

    Pool ops name for mbuf to use.

Commit message:

eal: add new command line option iova-len
The IOMMU used by PowerNV systems requires that a DMA window be defined
before IOVA memory can be mapped.  (See Documentation/driver-api/vfio.rst
in the Linux kernel source code).  It is not always possible to
determine the proper window size during initialization, such as when
external memory is being used, so a new EAL command line option,
--iova-len, is defined to allow the user to manually configure the DMA
window size.

Signed-off-by: David Christensen <drc@linux.vnet.ibm.com>

doc/guides/linux_gsg/eal_args.include.rst, after:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation.

Lcore-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-c <core mask>``

    Set the hexadecimal bitmask of the cores to run on.

*   ``-l <core list>``

    List of cores to run on

    The argument format is ``<c1>[-c2][,c3[-c4],...]``
    where ``c1``, ``c2``, etc are core indexes between 0 and 128.

*   ``--lcores <core map>``

    Map lcore set to physical cpu set

    The argument format is::

       <lcores[@cpus]>[<,lcores[@cpus]>...]

    Lcore and CPU lists are grouped by ``(`` and ``)`` Within the group.
    The ``-`` character is used as a range separator and ``,`` is used as a
    single number separator.
    The grouping ``()`` can be omitted for single element group.
    The ``@`` can be omitted if cpus and lcores have the same value.

.. Note::
    At a given instance only one core option ``--lcores``, ``-l`` or ``-c`` can
    be used.

*   ``--master-lcore <core ID>``

    Core ID that is used as master.

*   ``-s <service core mask>``

    Hexadecimal bitmask of cores to be used as service cores.

Device-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-b, --pci-blacklist <[domain:]bus:devid.func>``

    Blacklist a PCI device to prevent EAL from using it. Multiple -b options are
    allowed.

.. Note::
    PCI blacklist cannot be used with ``-w`` option.

*   ``-w, --pci-whitelist <[domain:]bus:devid.func>``

    Add a PCI device in white list.

.. Note::
    PCI whitelist cannot be used with ``-b`` option.

*   ``--vdev <device arguments>``

    Add a virtual device using the format::

       <driver><id>[,key=val, ...]

    For example::

       --vdev 'net_pcap0,rx_pcap=input.pcap,tx_pcap=output.pcap'

*   ``-d <path to shared object or directory>``

    Load external drivers. An argument can be a single shared object file, or a
    directory containing multiple driver shared objects. Multiple -d options are
    allowed.

*   ``--no-pci``

    Disable PCI bus.

Multiprocessing-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``--proc-type <primary|secondary|auto>``

    Set the type of the current process.

*   ``--base-virtaddr <address>``

    Attempt to use a different starting address for all memory maps of the
    primary DPDK process. This can be helpful if secondary processes cannot
    start due to conflicts in address map.

Memory-related options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-n <number of channels>``

    Set the number of memory channels to use.

*   ``-r <number of ranks>``

    Set the number of memory ranks (auto-detected by default).

*   ``-m <megabytes>``

    Amount of memory to preallocate at startup.

*   ``--in-memory``

    Do not create any shared data structures and run entirely in memory. Implies
    ``--no-shconf`` and (if applicable) ``--huge-unlink``.

*   ``--iova-mode <pa|va>``

    Force IOVA mode to a specific value.

*   ``--iova-len <length in bytes>``

    Sets the length for the DMA window. Used when configuring the IOMMU on PowerNV systems in conjunction with VFIO. When set to 0 (Default) then the size of the DMA window is calculated by walking the memseg list during initialization. Useful when external heap memory is used.

Debugging options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``--no-shconf``

    No shared files created (implies no secondary process support).

*   ``--no-huge``

    Use anonymous memory instead of hugepages (implies no secondary process
    support).

*   ``--log-level <type:val>``

    Specify log level for a specific component. For example::

        --log-level lib.eal:debug

    Can be specified multiple times.

*   ``--trace=<regex-match>``

    Enable trace based on regular expression trace name. By default, the trace is
    disabled. User must specify this option to enable trace.
    For example:

    Global trace configuration for EAL only::

        --trace=eal

    Global trace configuration for ALL the components::

        --trace=.*

    Can be specified multiple times up to 32 times.

*   ``--trace-dir=<directory path>``

    Specify trace directory for trace output. For example:

    Configuring ``/tmp/`` as a trace output directory::

        --trace-dir=/tmp

    By default, trace output will created at ``home`` directory and parameter
    must be specified once only.

*   ``--trace-bufsz=<val>``

    Specify maximum size of allocated memory for trace output for each thread.
    Valid unit can be either ``B`` or ``K`` or ``M`` for ``Bytes``, ``KBytes``
    and ``MBytes`` respectively. For example:

    Configuring ``2MB`` as a maximum size for trace output file::

        --trace-bufsz=2M

    By default, size of trace output file is ``1MB`` and parameter
    must be specified once only.

*   ``--trace-mode=<o[verwrite] | d[iscard] >``

    Specify the mode of update of trace output file. Either update on a file
    can be wrapped or discarded when file size reaches its maximum limit.
    For example:

    To ``discard`` update on trace output file::

        --trace-mode=d or --trace-mode=discard

    Default mode is ``overwrite`` and parameter must be specified once only.

Other options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   ``-h``, ``--help``

    Display help message listing all EAL parameters.

*   ``-v``

    Display the version information on startup.

*   ``mbuf-pool-ops-name``:

    Pool ops name for mbuf to use.
